Welcome back.
Now in this section of our course we are going to take a deep look into Graff Kuo.
Now I'm not going to lie to you.
This graph you all section is going to be pretty complex and it's going to be pretty long.
There is a lot that we have to cover about how to use graph Q all on our front end.
But most importantly what graph QR is what problems it attempts to solve and how you as a front end
developer need to look out for graph QoL in terms of what you can do in your career.
To best understand what it brings to the development table now in order for us to understand what graph
QR is we need to understand the problem that graph QR is trying to solve.
And in order for us to understand this we need to first understand that what graph Q all is is actually
something for the backend so graph QoL is actually a server language that wraps around an existing database
or server that you can make requests against in a different way from the way that we have been up until
this point.
Now if that seems confusing for you Don't worry I'm about to explain what I mean but in order to do
that we have to first look back at our backend diagram so if we look back at this diagram what this
diagram represents is a typical rest back in server so a server will expose different end points that
have different things that they can do when you on a front end application or client make some kind
of request to it.
So for example if we had this users end point that are back end exposed and we made a request to this
end point so whatever the URL is of this back and server let's imagine it's something like ah application
as the user name.
So Crown clothing dot com slash API slash users I want to request from my application for all of the
users from this end point while this endpoint would process whether or not I on my front an application
I'm allowed to access all of these users like any of the data that I'm requesting and then if the code
that somebody wrote on the back end authorizes us and says OK that's cool then it's going to send us
back all of the data related to all the users that we requested.
Now how that actually looks and code is not important for us because this back in server code is something
that we don't need to code but this is going to be very similar to kind of like how we worked with the
Jason place holders API as well as how we're working with fire store we're essentially making requests
to specific endpoints that we have inside of our server in order to get some data now if we wanted data
related to let's say for example all of the posts for a specific user if you were to imagine this application
to be something that has posts and comments right maybe like a blog of some kind or a forum while our
application would have to make a request to a different endpoint where we would maybe have to pass the
user I.D. in as part of the data of our requests.
To this end point for all of the posts for some specific user so we would send in that user I.D. to
this you are all maybe we would just even pass the user I.D. as the URL parameter the way that we have
done before with our collection page and then this again the back and server would determine whether
or not we have the correct authorization to access this user's posts.
And then if we do it would send those posts back to us finally let's say we wanted.
Comments again there might be a different end point as well for that post based on the I.D. to get the
comments and we would make the request the server would again have to re authenticate us and figure
out if we are allowed to access those comments.
And then if we are they'd send those comments back to us.
So this is how most front end applications work with back end servers in any capacity if we wanted to
make updates to the database like let's say we modified the post that we got and we wanted to change
the title while again there would have to be maybe the same endpoint that was opened but we would send
a different type of request to this back in in order to make an update or if we wanted to create a post
similar exact same thing but a different request.
Again now this paradigm of using these end points is what's called the rest paradigm which stands for
representational state transfer and it follows the paradigm of you either making get requests post requests
update requests or delete requests and it's exactly as they sound if you want to get some data you make
a get request if you want to post some data meaning you want to create something new you make a post
request if you want to update something you make an update request and then if you want to delete something
you make a delete request so that's the main idea behind rest and how we on the front end interact with
this rest back end server but imagine a scenario and you can kind of see where the problem arises when
we look at this specific scenario where let's say from my web application the user navigates to the
post I.D. slash comments section meaning that they want all of the comments related to some specific
posts in order for us on our web application to get that specific thing we need to know the post I.D.
and to get the post I.D. we might need to have gotten it from our posts first related to our user which
we would have to get with a user I.D. in order to get our user I.D. we'd have to make a query to the
users and point asking for our user data.
So in order to get the comments we'd have to make three different requests to the back end in order
to get the data we'd first get the users find our user get the user I.D. make a request to this new
end point with that user I.D. to get the posts related to our user and then from our posts get the post
I.D. for the post we want send it to this back in so that we can get the comments related to that post
it's a very expensive solution and it seems like it's a lot of steps that we have to do just to get
this kind of information.
Now the other thing too is that we might get all of the data on these comments or on the posts that
we don't need as we've seen with a lot of the data that we handle a lot of the times.
The only thing we need is the I.D..
Or maybe the title or the name.
Right.
We only need one or two properties on that data model.
If instead you imagined these pieces of data have a lot of data on them let's say there's like 30 40
50 pieces of data that it needs to serve for all kinds of different purposes.
Well we're over faction data we're getting way too much data that we on the front end don't care about
when all we really want is the I.D. or the name well.
These two problems are actually the main things that graph QoL tries to solve.
Let's look at what graph you all does instead.
So in order to use graph Q all you actually convert your wrist back and server into a graph you all
server now instead what happens right away just by looking at this image.
What we see is that instead of having multiple different endpoints that we can hit from our server our
graph your server just exposes one single endpoint usually called the slash graph Q all employee and
from this end point our application makes all of its requests for all of its data whether to get data
update data create data or delete data all to this one end point secondly what we need to do in order
to make a request to this graph kewl End Point is we need to pass it either a query or a mutation.
Now we'll talk about mutations later but the main difference is that a query is where we ask for data
and a mutation is where we want to modify data but essentially they all take a similar shape and the
shape looks very much like a Jason object.
So let's look at this first example here.
Let's say we wanted to get all of our posts from the graph endpoint point while we make a request and
we would pass in this weird looking object and what this object says is that I want the posts which
is the data model name that our server is aware of that knows that posts is related to the posts data
in the database that it needs to access.
So what happens is that we request for posts and then we pass it this object looking shape and inside
we give it the properties that we want the server to give back to us of the posts data that we want.
Meaning that what we would pass in if we only wanted I.D. title and content would just be those fields
we would just pass the I.D. field the title field and the content field if that's all we wanted.
If we didn't want the title field we just remove it from this object and we pass that and then the server
if successful and authorizes us to receive this information will send us back an array of these posts
where each of those posts data individually only have the I.D. and the content variables on them.
So this right away allows us to fetch exactly the data that we want.
Also what else this does is we don't have to be aware of all of the different endpoints that we need
to be able to access in order to get any of the data that we need it.
So if for example we suddenly had this new feature that was built on the back in an OR to fetch data
related to say something like pages or say something like your friends well they would have to make
a new endpoint for us maybe called friends and then we would have to make on our front end unawareness
to that new end point and then make requests to it which means that in some ways maybe we have to add
more things to our application on our front end just so that we are aware that this new endpoint exists
for this new feature well with a graph Q all server that never has to happen because whatever the back
end server changes we don't need to be aware that the new endpoint happened we just need to know from
our application that the shape of this data looks a certain way and we can query for certain things.
So then we would just make that request and our endpoint is always going to be this one graph Q endpoint
alternatively if we wanted specific data like let's say one specific user based on an I.D. if we already
were aware of the I.D. Well we just passed that idea in to the query itself as well asking for the user
object telling it I want it by this I.D. and then again we could define the shape of the data that we
want if we want to I.D. if we wanted the name right.
If we want to whatever other properties like email address it doesn't matter.
You would make the request inside of this object but now it gives a singular access still to that one.
Now what happens if we want to say a specific post that belongs to our user I.D. but we also want the
comments that might be related to that post one now on the back end they would essentially define that
relationship between these comments objects and this post and you don't need to know too much about
what that relationship code looks like.
All you need to know is that what happens is that it allows us from our front end to requests for that
specific post from the specific user I.D. and then from there we would be able to again say which properties
of the post we want.
Let's say we want the I.D. the name whatever but then we also want the comments related to this post.
So we would say the comments which would be a property as we see with our collection items right.
How we have the items that gives us the array of the items that belong to the collection.
Well here we would say the same thing.
I want the comments and then of those comments I want and then we can list what properties on those
common data that we want.
So I want the idea of the comment I want the contents of the can't comment.
And that's it.
And then this request would give us back all of those objects with the comments as well as a property
of our post object data.
So this is kind of a high level look at what is happening and what graphed Q all does differently from
typical rest api.
Now if you haven't worked too much with rest api some of this you might not fully empathize with as
far as the problem goes but if you ever go onto an application that is quite large and working with
a rest api to do a lot of its features you will encounter these issues that I've talked about.
But of course these problems are not extremely significant that every application is going to start
switching over to graph Kuo lots of applications are built and fully working and very successful using
this traditional rest back and server paradigm and having front end applications query against new endpoints.
Right.
There's lots of services and processes and workflows that deal with how we on the front end work with
this kind of API but graphed Q all is just a very interesting new look and approach to this kind of
thing.
Now that's a lot of concepts and there's a little bit more that you'll only really have to encounter
as you get more advanced with working with graph Q all but from a high level that's the value proposition
that it brings to the table now in the next lesson we're actually going to look at a live example of
how we're going to make a request against the Rockefeller server for this data that we were talking
about.